LXVI:0:1. Apep deifieth Asar. 
LXVI:0:2. Let excellent virgins evoke rejoicing, son of Night! 
LXVI:0:3. This is the book of the most secret cult of the Ruby Star. It shall be given to none, save to the shameless in deed as in word. 
LXVI:0:4. No man shall understand this writing -- it is too subtle for the sons of men. 
LXVI:0:5. If the Ruby Star have shed its blood upon thee; if in the season of the moon thou hast invoked by the Iod and the Pe, then mayst thou partake of this most secret sacrament. 
LXVI:0:6. One shall instruct another, with no care for the matters of men's thought. 
LXVI:0:7. There shall be a fair altar in the midst, extended upon a black stone. 
LXVI:0:8. At the head of the altar gold, and twin images in green of the Master. 
LXVI:0:9. In the midst a cup of green wine. 
LXVI:0:10. At the foot the Star of Ruby. 
LXVI:0:11. The altar shall be entirely bare. 
LXVI:0:12. First, the ritual of the Flaming Star. 
LXVI:0:13. Next, the ritual of the Seal. 
LXVI:0:14. Next, the infernal adorations of OAI.  Mu pa telai, Tu wa melai a, a, a. Tu fu tulu! Tu fu tulu Pa, Sa, Ga.  Qwi Mu telai Ya Pu melai; u, u, u. 'Se gu malai; Pe fu telai, Fu tu lu  O chi balae wa pa malae:-- Ut! Ut! Ut! Ge; fu latria, Le fu malai Kut! Hut! Nut!  Al Oai Rel moai Ti -- Ti -- Ti! Wa la pelai Tu fu latai Wi, Ni, Bi.   
LXVI:0:15. Also thou shalt excite the wheels with the five wounds and the five wounds. 
LXVI:0:16. Then thou shalt excite the wheels with the two and the third in the midst; even [Saturn] and [Jupiter], [Sol] and [Luna], [Mars] and [Venus], and [Mercury]. 
LXVI:0:17. Then the five -- and the sixth. 
LXVI:0:18. Also the altar shall fume before the master with incense that hath no smoke. 
LXVI:0:19. That which is to be denied shall be denied; that which is to be trampled shall be trampled; that which is to be spat upon shall be spat upon. 
LXVI:0:20. These things shall be burnt in the outer fire. 
LXVI:0:21. Then again the master shall speak as he will soft words, and with music and what else he will bring forward the Victim. 22) Also he shall slay a young child upon the altar, and the blood shall cover the altar with perfume as of roses. 
LXVI:0:23. Then shall the master appear as He should appear -- in His glory. 
LXVI:0:24. He shall stretch himself upon the altar, and awake it into life, and into death. 
LXVI:0:25. (For so we conceal that life which is beyond.) 
LXVI:0:26. The temple shall be darkened, save for the fire and the lamp of the altar. 
LXVI:0:27. There shall he kindle a great fire and a devouring. 
LXVI:0:28. Also he shall smite the altar with his scourge, and blood shall flow therefrom. 
LXVI:0:29. Also he shall have made roses bloom thereon. 
LXVI:0:30. In the end he shall offer up the Vast Sacrifice, at the moment when the God licks up the flame upon the altar. 
LXVI:0:31. All these things shalt thou perform strictly, observing the time. 
LXVI:0:32. And the Beloved shall abide with Thee. 
LXVI:0:33. Thou shalt not disclose the interior world of this rite unto any one: therefore have I written it in symbols that cannot be understood. 
LXVI:0:34. I who reveal the ritual am Iao and Oai; the Right and the Averse. 
LXVI:0:35. These are alike unto me. 
LXVI:0:36. Now the Veil of this operation is called Shame, and the Glory abideth within. 
LXVI:0:37. Thou shalt comfort the heart of the secret stone with the warm blood. Thou shalt make a subtle decoction of delight, and the Watchers shall drink thereof. 
LXVI:0:38. I, Apep the Serpent, am the heart of Iao. Isis shall await Asar, and I in the midst. 
LXVI:0:39. Also the Priestess shall seek another altar, and perform my ceremonies thereon. 
LXVI:0:40. There shall be no hymn nor dithyramb in my praise and the praise of the rite, seeing that it is utterly beyond. 
LXVI:0:41. Thou shalt assure thyself of the stability of the altar. 
LXVI:0:42. In this rite thou shalt be alone. 
LXVI:0:43. I will give thee another ceremony whereby many shall rejoice. 
LXVI:0:44. Before all let the Oath be taken firmly as thou raisest up the altar from the black earth. 
LXVI:0:45. In the words that Thou knowest. 
LXVI:0:46. For I also swear unto thee by my body and soul that shall never be parted in sunder that I dwell within thee coiled and ready to spring. 
LXVI:0:47. I will give thee the kingdoms of the earth, O thou Who hast mastered the kingdoms of the East and of the West. 
LXVI:0:48. I am Apep, O thou slain One. Thou shalt slay thyself upon mine altar: I will have thy blood to drink. 
LXVI:0:49. For I am a mighty vampire, and my children shall suck up the wine of the earth which is blood. 
LXVI:0:50. Thou shalt replenish thy veins from the chalice of heaven. 
LXVI:0:51. Thou shalt be secret, a fear to the world. 
LXVI:0:52. Thou shalt be exalted, and none shall see thee; exalted, and none shall suspect thee. 
LXVI:0:53. For there are two glories diverse, and thou who hast won the first shalt enjoy the second. 
LXVI:0:54. I leap with joy within thee; my head is arisen to strike. 
LXVI:0:55. O the lust, the sheer rapture, of the life of the snake in the spine! 
LXVI:0:56. Mighter than God or man, I am in them, and pervade them. 
LXVI:0:57. Follow out these my words. 
LXVI:0:58. Fear nothing. Fear nothing. Fear nothing. 
LXVI:0:59. For I am nothing, and me thou shalt fear, O my virgin, my prophet within whose bowels I rejoice. 
LXVI:0:60. Thou shalt fear with the fear of love: I will overcome thee. 
LXVI:0:61. Thou shalt be very nigh to death. 
LXVI:0:62. But I will overcome thee; the New Life shall illumine thee with the Light that is beyond the Stars. 
LXVI:0:63. Thinkest thou? I, the force that have created all, am not to be despised. 
LXVI:0:64. And I will slay thee in my lust. 
LXVI:0:65. Thou shalt scream with the joy and the pain and the fear and the love -- so that the LOGOS of a new God leaps out among the Stars. 
LXVI:0:66. There shall be no sound heard but this thy lion-roar of rapture; yea, this thy lion-roar of rapture. 
