VII:III:1. I was the priest of Ammon-Ra in the temple of Ammon-Ra at Thebai. 
VII:III:2. But Bacchus came singing with his troops of vine-clad girls, of girls in dark mantles; and Bacchus in the midst like a fawn! 
VII:III:3. God! how I ran out in my rage and scattered the chorus! 
VII:III:4. But in my temple stood Bacchus as the priest of Ammon-Ra. 
VII:III:5. Therefore I went wildly with the girls into Abyssinia; and there we abode and rejoiced. 
VII:III:6. Exceedingly; yea, in good sooth! 
VII:III:7. I will eat the ripe and the unripe fruit for the glory of Bacchus. 
VII:III:8. Terraces of ilex, and tiers of onyx and opal and sardonyx leading up to the cool green porch of malachite. 
VII:III:9. Within is a crystal shell, shaped like an oyster -- O glory of Priapus! O beatitude of the Great Goddess! 
VII:III:10. Therein is a pearl. 
VII:III:11. O Pearl! thou hast come from the majesty of dread Ammon-Ra. 
VII:III:12. Then I the priest beheld a steady glitter in the heart of the pearl. 
VII:III:13. So bright we could not look! But behold! a blood-red rose upon a rood of glowing gold! 
VII:III:14. So I adored the God. Bacchus! thou art the lover of my God! 
VII:III:15. I who was priest of Ammon-Ra, who saw the Nile flow by for many moons, for many, many moons, am the young fawn of the grey land. 
VII:III:16. I will set up my dance in your conventicles, and my secret loves shall be sweet among you. 
VII:III:17. Thou shalt have a lover among the lords of the grey land. 
VII:III:18. This shall he bring unto thee, without which all is in vain; a man's life spilt for thy love upon Mine Altars. 
VII:III:19. Amen. 
VII:III:20. Let it be soon, O God, my God! I ache for Thee, I wander very lonely among the mad folk, in the grey land of desolation. 
VII:III:21. Thou shalt set up the abominable lonely Thing of wickedness. Oh joy! to lay that corner-stone! 
VII:III:22. It shall stand erect upon the high mountain; only my God shall commune with it. 
VII:III:23. I will build it of a single ruby; it shall be seen from afar off. 
VII:III:24. Come! let us irritate the vessels of the earth: they shall distil strange wine. 
VII:III:25. It grows under my hand: it shall cover the whole heaven. 
VII:III:26. Thou art behind me: I scream with a mad joy. 
VII:III:27. Then said Ithuriel the strong; let Us also worship this invisible marvel! 
VII:III:28. So did they, and the archangels swept over the heaven. 
VII:III:29. Strange and mystic, like a yellow priest invoking mighty flights of great grey birds from the North, so do I stand and invoke Thee! 
VII:III:30. Let them obscure not the sun with their wings and their clamour! 
VII:III:31. Take away form and its following! 
VII:III:32. I am still. 
VII:III:33. Thou art like an osprey among the rice, I am the great red pelican in the sunset waters. 
VII:III:34. I am like a black eunuch; and Thou art the scimitar. I smite off the head of the light one, the breaker of bread and salt. 
VII:III:35. Yea! I smite -- and the blood makes as it were a sunset on the lapis lazuli of the King's Bedchamber. 
VII:III:36. I smite. The whole world is broken up into a mighty wind, and a voice cries aloud in a tongue that men cannot speak. 
VII:III:37. I know that awful sound of primal joy; let us follow on the wings of the gale even unto the holy house of Hathor; let us offer the five jewels of the cow upon her altar! 
VII:III:38. Again the inhuman voice! 
VII:III:39. I rear my Titan bulk into the teeth of the gale, and I smite and prevail, and swing me out over the sea. 
VII:III:40. There is a strange pale God, a god of pain and deadly wickedness. 
VII:III:41. My own soul bites into itself, like a scorpion ringed with fire. 
VII:III:42. That pallid God with face averted, that God of subtlety and laughter, that young Doric God, him will I serve. 
VII:III:43. For the end thereof is torment unspeakable. 
VII:III:44. Better the loneliness of the great grey sea! 
VII:III:45. But ill befall the folk of the grey land, my God! 
VII:III:46. Let me smother them with my roses! 
VII:III:47. Oh Thou delicious God, smile sinister! 
VII:III:48. I pluck Thee, O my God, like a purple plum upon a sunny tree. How Thou dost melt in my mouth, Thou consecrated sugar of the Stars. 
VII:III:49. The world is all grey before mine eyes; it is like an old worn wine-skin. 
VII:III:50. All the wine of it is on these lips. 
VII:III:51. Thou hast begotten me upon a marble Statue, O my God! 
VII:III:52. The body is icy cold with the coldness of a million moons; it is harder than the adamant of eternity. How shall I come forth into the light? 
VII:III:53. Thou art He, O God! O my darling! my child! my plaything! Thou art like a cluster of maidens, like a multitude of swans upon the lake. 
VII:III:54. I feel the essence of softness. 
VII:III:55. I am hard and strong and male; but come Thou! I shall be soft and weak and feminine. 
VII:III:56. Thou shalt crush me in the wine-press of Thy love. My blood shall stain Thy fiery feet with litanies of Love in Anguish. 
VII:III:57. There shall be a new flower in the fields, a new vintage in the vineyards. 
VII:III:58. The bees shall gather a new honey; the poets shall sing a new song. 
VII:III:59. I shall gain the Pain of the Goat for my prize; and the God that sitteth upon the shoulders of Time shall drowse. 
VII:III:60. Then shall all this which is written be accomplished: yea, it shall be accomplished. 
