VII:VI:1. Thou wast a priestess, O my God, among the Druids; and we knew the powers of the oak. 
VII:VI:2. We made us a temple of stones in the shape of the Universe, even as thou didst wear openly and I concealed. 
VII:VI:3. There we performed many wonderful things by midnight. 
VII:VI:4. By the waning moon did we work. 
VII:VI:5. Over the plain came the atrocious cry of wolves. 
VII:VI:6. We answered; we hunted with the pack. 
VII:VI:7. We came even unto the new Chapel and Thou didst bear away the Holy Graal beneath Thy Druid vestments. 
VII:VI:8. Secretly and by stealth did we drink of the informing sacrament. 
VII:VI:9. Then a terrible disease seized upon the folk of the grey land; and we rejoiced. 
VII:VI:10. O my God, disguise Thy glory! 
VII:VI:11. Come as a thief, and let us steal away the Sacraments! 
VII:VI:12. In our groves, in our cloistral cells, in our honeycomb of happiness, let us drink, let us drink! 
VII:VI:13. It is the wine that tinges everything with the true tincture of infallible gold. 
VII:VI:14. There are deep secrets in these songs. It is not enough to hear the bird; to enjoy song he must be the bird. 
VII:VI:15. I am the bird, and Thou art my song, O my glorious galloping God! 
VII:VI:16. Thou reinest in the stars; thou drivest the constellations seven abreast through the circus of Nothingness. 
VII:VI:17. Thou Gladiator God! 
VII:VI:18. I play upon mine harp; Thou fightest the beasts and the flames. 
VII:VI:19. Thou takest Thy joy in the music, and I in the fighting. 
VII:VI:20. Thou and I are beloved of the Emperor. 
VII:VI:21. See! he has summoned us to the Imperial dais. The night falls; it is a great orgy of worship and bliss. 
VII:VI:22. The night falls like a spangled cloak from the shoulders of a prince upon a slave. 
VII:VI:23. He rises a free man! 
VII:VI:24. Cast thou, O prophet, the cloak upon these slaves! 
VII:VI:25. A great night, and scarce fires therein; but freedom for the slave that its glory shall encompass. 
VII:VI:26. So also I went down into the great sad city. 
VII:VI:27. There dead Messalina bartered her crown for poison from the dead Locusta; there stood Caligula, and smote the seas of forgetfulness. 
VII:VI:28. Who wast Thou, O Caesar, that Thou knewest God in an horse? 
VII:VI:29. For lo! we beheld the White Horse of the Saxon engraven upon the earth; and we beheld the Horses of the Sea that flame about the old grey land, and the foam from their nostrils enlightens us! 
VII:VI:30. Ah! but I love thee, God! 
VII:VI:31. Thou art like a moon upon the ice-world. 
VII:VI:32. Thou art like the dawn of the utmost snows upon the burnt-up flats of the tiger's land. 
VII:VI:33. By silence and by speech do I worship Thee. 
VII:VI:34. But all is in vain. 
VII:VI:35. Only Thy silence and Thy speech that worship me avail. 
VII:VI:36. Wail, O ye folk of the grey land, for we have drunk your wine, and left ye but the bitter dregs. 
VII:VI:37. Yet from these we will distil ye a liquor beyond the nectar of the Gods. 
VII:VI:38. There is value in our tincture for a world of Spice and gold. 
VII:VI:39. For our red powder of projection is beyond all possibilities. 
VII:VI:40. There are few men; there are enough. 
VII:VI:41. We shall be full of cup-bearers, and the wine is not stinted. 
VII:VI:42. O dear my God! what a feast Thou hast provided. 
VII:VI:43. Behold the lights and the flowers and the maidens! 
VII:VI:44. Taste of the wines and the cates and the splendid meats! 
VII:VI:45. Breathe in the perfumes and the clouds of little gods like wood-nymphs that inhabit the nostrils! 
VII:VI:46. Feel with your whole body the glorious smoothness of the marble coolth and the generous warmth of the sun and the slaves! 
VII:VI:47. Let the Invisible inform all the devouring Light of its disruptive vigour! 
VII:VI:48. Yea! all the world is split apart, as an old grey tree by the lightning! 
VII:VI:49. Come, O ye gods, and let us feast. 
VII:VI:50. Thou, O my darling, O my ceaseless Sparrow-God, my delight, my desire, my deceiver, come Thou and chirp at my right hand! 
VII:VI:51. This was the tale of the memory of Al A'in the priest; yea, of Al A'in the priest. 
