VII:V:1. O my beautiful God! I swim in Thy heart like a trout in the mountain torrent. 
VII:V:2. I leap from pool to pool in my joy; I am goodly with brown and gold and silver. 
VII:V:3. Why, I am lovelier than the russet autumn woods at the first snowfall. 
VII:V:4. And the crystal cave of my thought is lovelier than I. 
VII:V:5. Only one fish-hook can draw me out; it is a woman kneeling by the bank of the stream. It is she that pours the bright dew over herself, and into the sand so that the river gushes forth. 
VII:V:6. There is a bird on yonder myrtle; only the song of that bird can draw me out of the pool of Thy heart, O my God! 
VII:V:7. Who is this Neapolitan boy that laughs in his happiness? His lover is the mighty crater of the Mountain of Fire. I saw his charred limbs borne down the slopes in a stealthy tongue of liquid stone. 
VII:V:8. And Oh! the chirp of the cicada! 
VII:V:9. I remember the days when I was cacique in Mexico. 
VII:V:10. O my God, wast Thou then as now my beautiful lover? 
VII:V:11. Was my boyhood then as now Thy toy, Thy joy? 
VII:V:12. Verily, I remember those iron days. 
VII:V:13. I remember how we drenched the bitter lakes with our torrent of gold; how we sank the treasurable image in the crater of Citlaltepetl. 
VII:V:14. How the good flame lifted us even unto the lowlands, setting us down in the impenetrable forest. 
VII:V:15. Yea, Thou wast a strange scarlet bird with a bill of gold. I was Thy mate in the forests of the lowland; and ever we heard from afar the shrill chant of mutilated priests and the insane clamour of the Sacrifice of Maidens. 
VII:V:16. There was a weird winged God that told us of his wisdom. 
VII:V:17. We attained to be starry grains of gold dust in the sands of a slow river. 
VII:V:18. Yea, and that river was the river of space and time also. 
VII:V:19. We parted thence; ever to the smaller, ever to the greater, until now, O sweet God, we are ourselves, the same. 
VII:V:20. O God of mine, Thou art like a little white goat with lightning in his horns! 
VII:V:21. I love Thee, I love Thee. 
VII:V:22. Every breath, every word, every thought, every deed is an act of love with Thee. 
VII:V:23. The beat of my heart is the pendulum of love. 
VII:V:24. The songs of me are the soft sighs: 
VII:V:25. The thoughts of me are very rapture: 
VII:V:26. And my deeds are the myriads of Thy children, the stars and the atoms. 
VII:V:27. Let there be nothing! 
VII:V:28. Let all things drop into this ocean of love! 
VII:V:29. Be this devotion a potent spell to exorcise the demons of the Five! 
VII:V:30. Ah God, all is gone! Thou dost consummate Thy rapture. Falutli! Falutli! 
VII:V:31. There is a solemnity of the silence. There is no more voice at all. 
VII:V:32. So shall it be unto the end. We who were dust shall never fall away into the dust. 
VII:V:33. So shall it be. 
VII:V:34. Then, O my God, the breath of the Garden of Spices. All these have a savour averse. 
VII:V:35. The cone is cut with an infinite ray; the curve of hyperbolic life springs into being. 
VII:V:36. Farther and farther we float; yet we are still. It is the chain of systems that is falling away from us. 
VII:V:37. First falls the silly world; the world of the old grey land. 
VII:V:38. Falls it unthinkably far, with its sorrowful bearded face presiding over it; it fades to silence and woe. 
VII:V:39. We to silence and bliss, and the face is the laughing face of Eros. 
VII:V:40. Smiling we greet him with the secret signs. 
VII:V:41. He leads us into the Inverted Palace. 
VII:V:42. There is the Heart of Blood, a pyramid reaching its apex down beyond the Wrong of the Beginning. 
VII:V:43. Bury me unto Thy Glory, O beloved, O princely lover of this harlot maiden, within the Secretest Chamber of the Palace! 
VII:V:44. It is done quickly; yea, the seal is set upon the vault. 
VII:V:45. There is one that shall avail to open it. 
VII:V:46. Nor by memory, nor by imagination, nor by prayer, nor by fasting, nor by scourging, nor by drugs, nor by ritual, nor by meditation; only by passive love shall he avail. 
VII:V:47. He shall await the sword of the Beloved and bare his throat for the stroke. 
VII:V:48. Then shall his blood leap out and write me runes in the sky; yea, write me runes in the sky. 
