VII:IV:1. I am like a maiden bathing in a clear pool of fresh water. 
VII:IV:2. O my God! I see Thee dark and desirable, rising through the water as a golden smoke. 
VII:IV:3. Thou art altogether golden, the hair and the eyebrows and the brilliant face; even into the finger-tips and toe-tips Thou art one rosy dream of gold. 
VII:IV:4. Deep into Thine eyes that are golden my soul leaps, like an archangel menacing the sun. 
VII:IV:5. My sword passes through and through Thee; crystalline moons ooze out of Thy beautiful body that is hidden behind the ovals of Thine eyes. 
VII:IV:6. Deeper, ever deeper. I fall, even as the whole Universe falls down the abyss of Years. 
VII:IV:7. For Eternity calls; the Overworld calls; the world of the Word is awaiting us. 
VII:IV:8. Be done with speech, O God! Fasten the fangs of the hound Eternity in this my throat! 
VII:IV:9. I am like a wounded bird flapping in circles. 
VII:IV:10. Who knows where I shall fall? 
VII:IV:11. O blessid One! O God! O my devourer! 
VII:IV:12. Let me fall, fall down, fall away, afar, alone! 
VII:IV:13. Let me fall! 
VII:IV:14. Nor is there any rest, Sweet Heart, save in the cradle of royal Bacchus, the thigh of the most Holy One. 
VII:IV:15. There rest, under the canopy of night. 
VII:IV:16. Uranus chid Eros; Marsyas chid Olympas; I chid my beautiful lover with his sunray mane; shall I not sing? 
VII:IV:17. Shall not mine incantations bring around me the wonderful company of the wood-gods, their bodies glistening with the ointment of moonlight and honey and myrrh? 
VII:IV:18. Worshipful are ye, O my lovers; let us forward to the dimmest hollow! 
VII:IV:19. There we will feast upon mandrake and upon moly! 
VII:IV:20. There the lovely One shall spread us His holy banquet. In the brown cakes of corn we shall taste the food of the world, and be strong. 
VII:IV:21. In the ruddy and awful cup of death we shall drink the blood of the world, and be drunken! 
VII:IV:22. Ohi! the song to Iao, the song to Iao! 
VII:IV:23. Come, let us sing to thee, Iacchus invisible, Iacchus triumphant, Iacchus indicible! 
VII:IV:24. Iacchus, O Iacchus, O Iacchus, be near us! 
VII:IV:25. Then was the countenance of all time darkened, and the true light shone forth. 
VII:IV:26. There was also a certain cry in an unknown tongue, whose stridency troubled the still waters of my soul, so that my mind and my body were healed of their disease, self-knowledge. 
VII:IV:27. Yea, an angel troubled the waters. 
VII:IV:28. This was the cry of Him: IIIOOShBTh-IO-IIIIAMAMThIBI-II. 
VII:IV:29. Nor did I sing this for a thousand times a night for a thousand nights before Thou camest, O my flaming God, and pierced me with Thy spear. Thy scarlet robe unfolded the whole heavens, so that the Gods said: All is burning: it is the end. 
VII:IV:30. Also Thou didst set Thy lips to the wound and suck out a million eggs. And Thy mother sat upon them, and lo! stars and stars and ultimate Things whereof stars are the atoms. 
VII:IV:31. Then I perceived Thee, O my God, sitting like a white cat upon the trellis-work of the arbour; and the hum of the spinning worlds was but Thy pleasure. 
VII:IV:32. O white cat, the sparks fly from Thy fur! Thou dost crackle with splitting the worlds. 
VII:IV:33. I have seen more of Thee in the white cat than I saw in the Vision of Fons. 
VII:IV:34. In the boat of Ra did I travel, but I never found upon the visible Universe any being like unto Thee! 
VII:IV:35. Thou wast like a winged white horse, and I raced Thee through eternity against the Lord of the Gods. 
VII:IV:36. So still we race! 
VII:IV:37. Thou wast like a flake of snow falling in the pine-clad woods. 
VII:IV:38. In a moment Thou wast lost in a wilderness of the like and the unlike. 
VII:IV:39. But I beheld the beautiful God at the back of the blizzard -- and Thou wast He! 
VII:IV:40. Also I read in a great Book. 
VII:IV:41. On ancient skin was written in letters of gold: Verbum fit Verbum. 
VII:IV:42. Also Vitriol and the hierophant's name V.V.V.V.V. 
VII:IV:43. All this wheeled in fire, in star-fire, rare and far and utterly lonely -- even as Thou and I, O desolate soul my God! 
VII:IV:44. Yea, and the writing It is well. This is the voice which shook the earth. 
VII:IV:45. Eight times he cried aloud, and by eight and by eight shall I count Thy favours, Oh Thou Elevenfold God 418! 
VII:IV:46. Yea, and by many more; by the ten in the twenty-two directions; even as the perpendicular of the Pyramid -- so shall Thy favours be. 
VII:IV:47. If I number them, they are One. 
VII:IV:48. Excellent is Thy love, Oh Lord! Thou art revealed by the darkness, and he who gropeth in the horror of the groves shall haply catch Thee, even as a snake that seizeth on a little singing-bird. 
VII:IV:49. I have caught Thee, O my soft thrush; I am like a hawk of mother-of-emerald; I catch Thee by instinct, though my eyes fail from Thy glory. 
VII:IV:50. Yet they are but foolish folk yonder. I see them on the yellow sand, all clad in Tyrian purple. 
VII:IV:51. They draw their shining God unto the land in nets; they build a fire to the Lord of Fire, and cry unhallowed words, even the dreadful curse Amri maratza, maratza, atman deona lastadza maratza maritza -- maran! 
VII:IV:52. Then do they cook the shining god, and gulp him whole. 
VII:IV:53. These are evil folk, O beautiful boy! let us pass on to the Otherworld. 
VII:IV:54. Let us make ourselves into a pleasant bait, into a seductive shape! 
VII:IV:55. I will be like a splendid naked woman with ivory breasts and golden nipples; my whole body shall be like the milk of the stars. I will be lustrous and Greek, a courtesan of Delos, of the unstable Isle. 
VII:IV:56. Thou shalt be like a little red worm on a hook. 
VII:IV:57. But thou and I will catch fish alike. 
VII:IV:58. Then wilt thou be a shining fish with golden back and silver belly: I will be like a violent beautiful man, stronger than two score bulls, a man of the West bearing a great sack of precious jewels upon a staff that is greater than the axis of the all. 
VII:IV:59. And the fish shall be sacrificed to Thee and the strong man crucified for Me, and Thou and I will kiss, and atone for the wrong of the Beginning; yea, for the wrong of the beginning. 
