XC:0:0. In the name of the Lord of Initiation, Amen. 
XC:0:1. I fly and I alight as an hawk: of mother-of-emerald are my mighty-sweeping wings. 
XC:0:2. I swoop down upon the black earth; and it gladdens into green at my coming. 
XC:0:3. Children of Earth! rejoice! rejoice exceedingly; for your salvation is at hand. 
XC:0:4. The end of sorrow is come; I will ravish you away into mine unutterable joy. 
XC:0:5. I will kiss you, and bring you to the bridal: I will spread a feast before you in the house of happiness. 
XC:0:6. I am not come to rebuke you, or to enslave you. 
XC:0:7. I bid you not turn from your voluptuous ways, from your idleness, from your follies. 
XC:0:8. But I bring you joy to your pleasure, peace to your languor, wisdom to your folly. 
XC:0:9. All that ye do is right, if so be that ye enjoy it. 
XC:0:10. I am come against sorrow, against weariness, against them that seek to enslave you. 
XC:0:11. I pour you lustral wine, that giveth you delight both at the sunset and the dawn. 
XC:0:12. Come with me, and I will give you all that is desirable upon the earth. 
XC:0:13. Because I give you that of which Earth and its joys are but as shadows. 
XC:0:14. They flee away, but my joy abideth even unto the end. 
XC:0:15. I have hidden myself beneath a mask: I am a black and terrible God. 
XC:0:16. With courage conquering fear shall ye approach me: ye shall lay down your heads upon mine altar, expecting the sweep of the sword. 
XC:0:17. But the first kiss of love shall be radiant on your lips; and all my darkness and terror shall turn to light and joy. 
XC:0:18. Only those who fear shall fail. Those who have bent their backs to the yoke of slavery until they can no longer stand upright; them will I despise. 
XC:0:19. But you who have defied the law; you who have conquered by subtlety or force; you will I take unto me, even I will take you unto me. 
XC:0:20. I ask you to sacrifice nothing at mine altar; I am the God who giveth all. 
XC:0:21. Light, Life, Love; Force, Fantasy, Fire; these do I bring you: mine hands are full of these. 
XC:0:22. There is joy in the setting-out; there is joy in the journey; there is joy in the goal. 
XC:0:23. Only if ye are sorrowful, or weary, or angry, or discomforted; then ye may know that ye have lost the golden thread, the thread wherewith I guide you to the heart of the groves of Eleusis. 
XC:0:24. My disciples are proud and beautiful; they are strong and swift; they rule their way like mighty conquerors. 
XC:0:25. The weak, the timid, the imperfect, the cowardly, the poor, the tearful -- these are mine enemies, and I am come to destroy them. 
XC:0:26. This also is compassion: an end to the sickness of earth. A rooting-out of the weeds: a watering of the flowers. 
XC:0:27. O my children, ye are more beautiful than the flowers: ye must not fade in your season. 
XC:0:28. I love you; I would sprinkle you with the divine dew of immortality. 
XC:0:29. This immortality is no vain hope beyond the grave: I offer you the certain consciousness of bliss. 
XC:0:30. I offer it at once, on earth; before an hour hath struck upon the bell, ye shall be with Me in the Abodes that are beyond Decay. 
XC:0:31. Also I give you power earthly and joy earthly; wealth, and health, and length of days. Adoration and love shall cling to your feet, and twine around your heart. 
XC:0:32. Only your mouths shall drink of a delicious wine -- the wine of Iacchus; they shall reach ever to the heavenly kiss of the Beautiful God. 
XC:0:33. I reveal unto you a great mystery. Ye stand between the abyss of height and the abyss of depth. 
XC:0:34. In either awaits you a Companion; and that Companion is Yourself. 
XC:0:35. Ye can have no other Companion. 
XC:0:36. Many have arisen, being wise. They have said 'Seek out the glittering Image in the place ever golden, and unite yourselves with It.' 
XC:0:37. Many have arisen, being foolish. They have said, 'Stoop down unto the darkly splendid world, and be wedded to that Blind Creature of the Slime.' 
XC:0:38. I who am beyond Wisdom and Folly, arise and say unto you: achieve both weddings! Unite yourselves with both! 
XC:0:39. Beware, beware, I say, lest ye seek after the one and lose the other! 
XC:0:40. My adepts stand upright; their head above the heavens, their feet below the hells. 
XC:0:41. But since one is naturally attracted to the Angel, another to the Demon, let the first strengthen the lower link, the last attach more firmly to the higher. 
XC:0:42. Thus shall equilibrium become perfect. I will aid my disciples; as fast as they acquire this balanced power and joy so faster will I push them. 
XC:0:43. They shall in their turn speak from this Invisible Throne; their words shall illumine the worlds. 
XC:0:44. They shall be masters of majesty and might; they shall be beautiful and joyous; they shall be clothed with victory and splendour; they shall stand upon the firm foundation; the kingdom shall be theirs; yea, the kingdom shall be theirs. . In the name of the Lord of Initiation. Amen. 
