XXVII:0:1. Here is Nothing under its three forms. It is not, yet informeth all things.
XXVII:0:2. Now cometh the glory of the Single One, as an imperfection and stain.
XXVII:0:3. But by the Weak One the Mother was it equilibrated.
XXVII:0:4. Also the purity was divided by Strength, the force of the Demiurge.
XXVII:0:5. And the Cross was formulated in the Universe that as yet was not.
XXVII:0:6. But now the Imperfection became manifest, presiding over the fading of perfection.
XXVII:0:7. Also the Woman arose, and veiled the Upper Heaven with her body of stars.
XXVII:0:8. Now then a giant arose, of terrible strength; and asserted the Spirit in a secret rite.
XXVII:0:9. And the Master of the Temple balancing all things arose; his stature was above the Heaven and below Earth and Hell.
XXVII:0:10. Against him the Brothers of the Left-hand Path, confusing the symbols. They concealed their horror [in this symbol]; for in truth they were
XXVII:0:11. The master flamed forth as a star and set a guard of Water in every Abyss.
XXVII:0:12. Also certain secret ones concealed the Light of Purity in themselves, protecting it from the Persecutions.
XXVII:0:13. Likewise also did certain sons and daughters of Hermes and of Aphrodite, more openly
XXVII:0:14. But the Enemy confused them. They pretended to conceal that Light, that they might betray it, and profane it.
XXVII:0:15. Yet certain holy nuns concealed the secret in songs upon the lyre.
XXVII:0:16. Now did the Horror of Time pervert all things, hiding the Purity with a loathsome thing, a thing unnameable.
XXVII:0:17. Yea, and there arose sensualists upon the firmament, as a foul stain of storm upon the sky.
XXVII:0:18. And the Black Brothers raised their heads; yea, they unveiled themselves without shame or fear.
XXVII:0:19. Also there rose up a soul of filth and of weakness, and it corrupted all the rule of the Tao.
XXVII:0:20. Then only was Heaven established to bear sway; for only in the lowest corruption is form manifest.
XXVII:0:21. Also did Heaven manifest in violent light,
XXVII:0:22. And in soft light.
XXVII:0:23. Then were the waters gathered together from the heaven,
XXVII:0:24. And a crust of earth concealed the core of flame.
XXVII:0:25. Around the globe gathered the wide air,
XXVII:0:26. And men began to light fires upon the earth.
XXVII:0:27. Therefore was the end of it sorrow; yet in that sorrow a sixfold star of glory whereby they might see to return unto the stainless Abode; yea, unto the Stainless Abode.
